RESURRECTION ERTUGRUL
THE STORIES AND CHARACTERS DEPICTED
HERE WERE INSPIRED BY OUR HISTORY
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED DURING
THE FILMING OF THIS PRODUCTION.
How will you take me in?
There is a secret passage that goes
to the dungeons. My vizier told me.
We will slip through there
without anyone realizing.
Do not let yourself go, son.
Be strong.
They will test your will to the limits.
What more can they do to me?
I do not care about myself...
...I wonder what they are doing
to that innocent boy.
They might have even killed him.
Look, young man...
...if your body is in this dungeon...
...the thing that awaits you
is much more than death itself.
If you know what will happen
to us so well...
...you must know those infidels well.
Because I know them so well,
I am in this dungeon for 17 years.
How did you bear this for so long?
With love.
The one who lights up the darkness
inside you even if your eyes are closed.
Do not stop thinking for even one second.
-Are you a hunter.
-I am the hunted this time.
The new home will be a new and joyous life
for all of us. Especially for us.
-Does Aleppo have everything?
-It has everything.
When we reach there, it will be complete.
We will go and we will wed.
This is my promise to you.
Aykiz?
Let me see?
It is a deep wound.
Thank you.
Aykiz...
...I was presumptuous.
I broke your heart.
But believe me, it was not my intention.
When you talked like that
about Ertugrul...
Aykiz, there is nothing
in my hand except my dreams and hopes.
The only thing that
make me go forward is hope.
If I did not have that, I would die right
here, right now from disappointment.
You cannot sooth your pain
by hurting others, Gokce.
But do not despair so much.
My problem is not you.
I thought that as we near Aleppo
I would be relieved...
...I would be joyous with
seeing Turgut again.
But a shadow is cast over my heart.
It is as if I am getting further away from
my sweetheart, instead of nearing him.
Memories pass in front my eyes.
Don’t tire yourself out
over nothing, Aykiz.
Over all the hardships and
sorrows we go through...
...your love is like a flower
that heralds the spring.
Ertugrul’s love made you a poet.
May God bless us all.
I only want to meet Turgut safe and sound,
that is enough for me.
Come on.
I am hungry like the wolf, Hatun.
Can’t you hurry up a bit?
I am coming, Bey.
I made the food you like.
It has been a while since we ate alone.
-May it be healthy, Gundogdu.
-Thank you, Hatun.
May it be healthy.
Hatun, I don’t have time for anything
because of the tribe’s issues.
You are right, Gundogdu.
You are like Bey of the tribe right now.
It is not easy to carry this load.
May God give you strength.
-Come on, Bismillah. Eat up.
-Bismillah.
Do we have permission, Gundogdu?
Gundogdu.
What do you want?
Control yourself, Gundogdu.
Don’t do anything you might regret.
You stay away from this, Selcan Hatun.
There are things you don’t know.
Yes...
...these are the things
that happened, Bey.
But as you have opened your eyes,
nothing is important anymore...
...they will all pass away,
if God permits.
Now, even if all hell breaks loose,
we can put it out with our hearts, Bey.
When we stand together in prayer line,
what trouble can hurt us?
You have always been with me, Wild Demir.
Anytime I had a problem,
you were on my side.
You are closer than a brother for me.
When you talk about brotherhood, Bey...
...you, I, Kurdoglu...
...Alpsungur.
We were brothers. Yes, we were.
Look, we are still like that. But...
Friendship get valuable with age, Bey.
Old friends like you and I.
Did you see Kurdoglu? He could not hit
a bear in front of him in the old times.
As he gets older, his eyes started
seeing better than a hawk, God bless.
This man is someone who I call Emmi
and our Shah calls blood brother.
But what did he do?
He tried to kill our Shah.
The matter is not like you think,
Gundogdu.
-First you have to listen to me.
-What will you tell me? What?
How you panicked when I told you
that you secretly went into the tent?
Or how you went to finish off the job
in the middle of the night? Which one?
What are you saying, Gundogdu?
I went to save Suleyman Shah from
the fury of the rabid son of Baybora.
I saved our Bey at the last second.
Moreover it was you who warned me
by telling me the tear in the tent.
It was Bozok who went
into the Marquee that night.
I went after him so that he cannot
complete the job he left unfinished.
And...
...I just came to congratulate you.
Mother Hayme told me.
I wanted to congratulate our new nephew.
The group talked nothing else but this.
Did Suleyman Shah,
our father heard it as well?
What did he say?
He was the most happy one.
Suleyman Shah was overjoyed with...
...the news of a grandson.
Anyway...
...I said what I came to say.
I should not bother you anymore.
Everything happened as you expected,
Ertugrul Bey.
Yes, it did.
They become a hunt while being a hunter,
with God’s permission.
But the situation is more complex
than we thought.
If Sahabettin’s most trusted maid
whom he sent for me is a traitor...
...the vizier is stuck in the trap.
If a lion is trapped,
even the jackals start to growl.
We have to save him whatever the cost.
I will be gone for a while, Ertugrul Bey.
Is this the right time, Afsin Bey.
Will you be leaving us alone
in this fight?
Ertugrul Bey, I know that you wonder
who I am, how far I can reach and...
...where my roots are. I will answer
all your questions and more in time.
But now, we have to pass through a bridge
that is thinner than a hair and...
...sharper than a sword. I ask for
one thing and that is for you to trust me.
We fought side by side, Afsin Bey. We have
a code of battle friendship between us.
I believe in you.
Tomorrow you should go to the Turkmen
carpet man in the market, Ertugrul Bey.
His name is Aykutluk.
He will help you in every way he can.
And I will enter through
the gates of hell for Turgut and Yigit.
Thank you.
Where did those men come from?
How could you not see them, Eftelya?
He didn’t have time to inform anyone.
He must have suspected
beforehand and came prepared.
But how could you not notice
those two goat herders while walking?
Do you have an explanation for this?
I could not see, Commander Titus,
that is why I escaped in the last minute.
Just like you failing against
Ertugrul every single time...
...I failed to notice his warriors.
You should understand me very well in this
manner as you are much more experienced.
Stop! What are you doing?
We are all like apostles
fighting for God’s lamb.
If we don’t trust each other, Jerusalem
can only be a distant dream for us!
Moreover, when Sahabettin
is killed tomorrow...
...Ertugrul will only be like a sewer rat
walking around the streets of Aleppo.
Then, how you take revenge shall be
up to your personal taste.
You caused all this!
When will you stop being a stubborn brat?
You don’t care for anyone.
Not your father, nor your tribe!
Look at the state of this tribe!
It is cracking up!
Winter is coming and we don’t even
know where to go! Open your eyes!
Open your eyes!
How will this tribe stand strong,
Ertugrul? How?
You are lying, Ertugrul.
The eagle is in the cage.
Now it is the wolf’s turn.
Be the sultan of my heart,
the mother of my children...
...and my companion till the end.
When I could not even become
the sultan of the palace I was born in...
...I cannot be the sultan of your heart.
Great God, Who has created
the world and the skies, I turn to you.
My aim is to set on a new road.
You are the Owner of
the road and destination.
May You bless us at the end of this road.
My wish is not to be the owner of
a throne, a crown or property.
The thing in my heart,
on this road I set off with Your name...
...is to glorify Your name.
My only aim in swinging my sword is to...
...make my weapon a tool of Your justice.
If my heart or mind strays from this...
...lead me to the right path with
crooked swords, Dear God.
On this road I set off to glorify
Your name don’t let my heart...
...stray to worldly desires. Don’t let
my mind be deceived by the devil.
Don’t let me bow down, Dear God. Let me
and my progeny serve you in Your cause...
...and be martyrs on this road, Great God.
Hamza.
Yes, Bey?
Take this and load it to the camel.
Look, Gundogdu.
Little feet will be wearing these.
With time our son will grow and
be a valiant man, just like his father.
Your heart and mine is beating
right here now.
Everything we have, all our hopes,
our happiness is here now.
He will be our life, our blood,
continuity of our progeny.
You will see that
all troubles will be left behind.
The new homeland will be
a new world for us.
If God permits, Hatun, if God permits.
Let us complete
this migration journey first.
Come on, I have some business to
attend to, you should get ready as well.
Father?
We ran away for so long...
...we faced so many troubles...
...we went through so much...
But at the end,
we could not protect Yigit.
There is nothing we can do
except pray, father.
Look at the state I am in.
I cannot even get up.
We will find a way in the end, Halime.
God will surely open up a blessed path
in front of us in time.
Ertugrul Bey promised me.
He will not let Yigit and Turgut Alp
be captive in enemy hands.
He will not, right, father?
Your wound is very serious. I beg you,
don’t distress yourself so much.
There is a Turkmen carpet man
around here with the name of Aykutluk.
Do you know his place?
Wake up! Wake up!
Wake up!
Be patient, my girl, Leila, be patient.
Do not throw yourself
into those dark wells once again.
May God help you.
-Didn’t she eat?
-No.
Today will be a difficult day
for all of us.
We do not know how it will end.
No news about our vizier
shall reach Leila, do you understand me?
As you wish. We will of course be careful.
But, how can something like this be?
How can our great vizier,
Sahabettin Tugrul...
...whom no one can suspect his honesty
and righteousness be tried?
You are right. We don’t know with
what kind of a slander he was imprisoned.
The only thing we can do for him
is to pray God. You may leave.
God! God! God!
Welcome, Ertugrul.
Our mad ones have been heralding that
you were coming from many streets away.
Are all those madmen, beggars and
drunkards your comrades?
When mayors are being bought
and sold in the market...
...we work with madmen
in this life or death market.
We need to rescue
the vizier from the dungeon.
It is very difficult to organize it
before a week, my brave.
We need to contact the guards in
the dungeon, arrange their schedule.
Moreover he will be tried today.
In the Muslim world the balance of justice
is not that crooked yet.
We should not lose hope from God.
We should wait for the outcome.
What if it is crooked?
What will we do then?
If betrayal damages the justice,
our crooked swords shall put...
...the strayed ones
on the right path again.
But, Nasir...
...this is dangerous.
Judge Efendi, you were not thinking
of the danger...
...while you were putting
pouches of gold under your belt.
You were saying the vizier is as good as
dead. Why do you tremble like a leaf now?
And...
...think well, Judge Efendi...
...after the issue of the
vizier is handled...
...his highness Melik will need
consultants like you beside him.
Can you really do this, Nasir?
Of course.
You are very important for me,
your judgeship.
It is not easy to find a man
that can be bought so easily in Aleppo.
On behalf of Emirate  of Aleppo,
Melik El Aziz.
In the name of God Who is
The Just, The Avenger...
...The Prevailer and The Most Gracious...
...we shall commence the trial of  Emirate
of Aleppo Vizier, Sahabettin Tugrul.
The accusations are murder,
disobedience of an order...
...abusing the trust given to him
and betrayal to the City of Aleppo...
...as well as to the Muslim world.
I am one of the private guards of
Sahabettin Tugrul...
...he ordered me to obtain
a fast acting lethal poison.
I did as I was ordered.
I saw the people who tried to kill the
Kayi envoy with the vizier in the market.
The vizier was giving something to them
in a pouch. I am sure that it was gold.
I am a trader, the vizier forced me...
...he used me as a decoy in his business
dealings with the Antioch Countship.
Sahabettin Tugrul, you have heard
the accusations, what do you say?
I reject all the accusations.
The accusers
are false witnesses who are bought.
This is a platform of justice and reality.
With permission from God, these eyes
can tell between the truth and lies...
...just like they are black or white.
You do not need to worry.
Call in the last witness.
God send you to us, Ummulhayr Abla.
We were going to send a message to you.
-We have a problem.
-Peace be upon you.
-And peace be upon you.
-Welcome, Abla. What happened?
You talked about an important matter.
I do not know whether you heard about
what happened to our vizier.
Sahabettin Tugrul is
an honest person inside and outside.
He is a valuable statesman
Great God has bestowed upon us.
Everyone knows that he had been doing
his duties in a competent manner.
He is going through a difficult test...
...may Great God be on his side.
-Amen.
Leila has learned about her uncle.
She is devastated since she learned that
it was her brother who arrested him.
I worry that she may fall ill once again
and turn her back on life.
Poor girl, she was recovering
quite well recently, wasn’t she?
Yes. She had recovered with
the support of our vizier but...
How can we of help, Abla?
I...
...if it is possible...
...she may be refreshed with
a conversation with our Sheikh Efendi.
I thought that she should be refreshed
with his light before she turns...
...herself back to darkness.
-You thought well.
I shall inform our sheikh
and tell you his decision.
May God bless you.
I heard that you have a problem as well.
We have visitors in our lodge.
They are also going
through difficult tests.
A young girl like Leila is wounded.
The doctor did all he could but...
...the wound is getting worse.
The cure is with God.
If the palace physician checks her,
maybe he can find a remedy.
Of course, I will immediately
tell him to visit you tomorrow.
The girl’s condition
is an emergency, Abla.
Do you swear on the Great Holy Quran
that you shall not be lying in court?
I do, Efendi.
Tell everything as you
told me before, my girl...
...and do not be afraid of anyone.
What happened in that room that day?
The vizier and I went into
the room the killer was in, Efendi.
Was there anyone else who knew that room?
What did you see when you went in?
The man...
...was lying down.
He started to tremble.
Foam started coming out of his mouth,
he was poisoned.
He died...
...in the arms of my vizier.
You may leave, my girl.
We heard what we need to hear.
The verdict is decided upon...
The physician has completed
his examination.
You were wise to inform us. The wound
is infected, her condition is not well.
-I did a small surgery.
-May God bless you.
But we cannot do much here.
She needs to be looked after in the palace
and treated with special medicine.
We can take her to the palace. If her
condition requires it, we shall abide.
Physician, can you tell us what to do
so that we can treat her here?
I do not want to part with her
while she is in this condition.
Her situation is critical,
she may not come out of this alive...
...we did whatever can be done here,
we shall do the same in the palace.
But only God knows
what the outcome will be.
You can be rest assured, Efendi.
Your daughter is entrusted in me.
I will personally tend to her.
Ummulhayl Hanim is my sister.
She will look after your daughter well...
...in the palace and she was also
the governess of El Aziz and his sister.
Sultan Aziz is like her son.
If God permits, there'll be no problem...
...you can be rest assured.
Translation: Suzan Mıhladız